Learning with Mark Warren


 Fix Your Eyesight: Improve Your Vision Naturally With One Lesson 

As the first set of the video starts, Mark Warren explains why he started his Vision Journey, He describes the constant pain in his eyes when working on his computer for long periods. Later he realises that when he wakes up in the middle of the night he can see his alarm clock crystal clear. This is what intrigued him, and he researched the depths of how to improve his eyesight. In his current research, he has composed a statement that vision relates to aspects of our mental mind. He states that about 80 % of our vision loss is mental while the other 20% is with glasses. As the video continues, Mark has concluded that Myopia or Nearsightedness blocks our brain's ability to use the external peripheral vision (The objects or items you see around you in the outside field of vision)He has come to the thought that if he can see such text that he has never been able to see before without glasses; he wouldn't need to use the glasses as much as he once needed to.
Later, He mentions a method called triangulation which is when our brain notices the depth in distances between objects to clear up the center part of our vision also known as central vision.

Fast Vision Restoration: Active Focus and Bates Are The Same

Mark realizes that Active Focus and the Bates methods get you to the same achievable point in the vision improvement process. He states that to be able to improve our vision we have to be aware of at least two objects that are around us at the same time. 

There are three ways that our eye should track movement:

Stationary Movement::The Movement when you can only move your head and your eyes will create movement from the foreground(Front of you) and the background(behind the central object you are looking at) when you are moving your head left to right or up and down.

Mobile Movement: The movement when you see objects converging and diverging while noticing the background and the foreground that takes place during physical motion. (Walking, running, etc)

Object Movement: The Movement that you track when an object is in motion or moving. An example is when an object like a car, bike, or any vehicle moves in a left-to-right direction in front of you and you notice the object’s movement while noticing another object in your peripheral vision.

Mentality tell yourself to watch the movement between objects.







Why Active Focus and Bates Method Swinging Are The Same Thing

As Active Focus and Bates Methods showed some similarities, swinging is one of the main ways to restore your vision in both Methods.
 Starting with Active focus you will need to have some sort of object or piece of paper with text on it, move forward into the text is clear, move back to the edge of blur blink a couple of times and they're the text should be clear. Repeat these actions as you go. This isn’t the proper way to find active focus. The proper way to find active focus is to set up everything stated before this text and place an object in front of the paper to focus on the outside objects in your field of vision. This technique is meant to withstand the length of 2 - 3 minutes back and forward and left and right without blinking. after 2 or 3 minutes close your eyes for 5 - 10 seconds, open them and the clirary muscle will release. Try It without your glasses on.

Unlock Active Focus in Minutes with Mobile Movement.

The best way to get Active Focus and relax the ciliary spasm is to rock side to side at a comfortable and slow movement. The main part is to focus on the movement behind the object you are looking at and what is in front of the object you are looking at. Notice the movement constantly at the rocking motion while rocking side to side for about 4 times. Then switch to another object with the same foreground and background object and repeat (4 to five rounds in sets as many times as needed)

Why I Got Fast Vision Correction Results

When you look at objects in the distance you can relax your clarity muscles. Over time you can get the stinging and the tearing try and hold it for a longer time to get a greater result. The main moral is when you keep on training your eye muscles they will become stronger. It’s not about the tears or the dry eyes that cause a clear image, it’s about the constant spasm releases that bring items, text, or objects into focus. Mark believes that the ciliary muscle is stimulated by motion.

Is Close-Up Really The Cause Of Your Myopia?

If we don’t see movement in our peripherals it keeps our central vision from being sharp. The question is that people will perfect vision can spend long amounts of time close up. Noticing objects in your peripheral vision at the edge of blur will help keep the image in focus. People will crystal clear vision can notice a lot of objects in their peripheral vision while noticing the constant movement from one object to the next.






My Vision Improvement Update and FAQs (that I keep getting)!

Can I do this without glasses?

Yes, You can do this without glasses but you need to have a lower prescription that you can focus on slight blur. You should be able to sit back and be a blur. The only way you're going to improve your eyes is if you have a blur challenge constantly. This means that you have to notice your peripheral, noticing movement between objects as you are working in front of your computer. If you have distance glasses you need to have some sort of blur so you can sharpen your peripheral. As you get under the -4 and -3 margin you need to stop wearing your glasses as much to improve. It is easier to see your peripheral vision if you have wider-frame glasses that sit back on your nose.

How Long should I do the eye exercises?

To make it clear these methods are not eye exercises. They are techniques that you need to get used to so that you are in the habit of seeing this way all the time. The more you practice these techniques and start seeing these movements in your peripheral vision you are going to build it into a habit 

How long should you be doing these techniques?

You should be doing these techniques from the time you wake up to the time you go to bed. You should be constantly aware of your peripherals from the moment you get up to the moment you go to bed. Walking inside and outside you should be able to notice objects converge and diverge. When at the computer if you notice that you have tunnel vision you should start the rocking technique. The more you tell yourself to look at the motion and stop tunnel visioning that it becomes a habit.



What About Double Vision?
Double will come and go especially if your eyes are unequal. The more you do the mobile movement noticing the converging and diverging the easier it is to clear the double vision. This mobile movement technique can also be used for astigmatism. While you walk look at an object that is in the foreground while looking at the object shift out of your peripheral in the background.

Should I Patch?

Patching puts a lot of strain on your extraocular muscles and when you take off the patch it is hard to adjust to the current light conditions. With the weaker eye, you can find the edge of blur, rocking back and forward or side by side to be able to clear your field of vision. Keep your eyes open as long as possible after you close your eyes and open them when done with the rocking techniques.
Should I Blink?

Not blinking while doing the rocking technique makes the weak muscles release. The Longer you can hold your eyes open the better. Blinking is like taking a break or resting in the middle of a workout or something important that has to be done. It can cause all of the clarity that you have created to disappear in an instant. Over time the longer you hold without blinking, the blinking won't disrupt any clarity that you have worked for.

Is The Tearing A Contact Lens Effect?

No, the tearing is not a contact lens effect. The tears usually come after the ciliary muscle is stimulated with movement. The tears don’t come after holding your eyes open for a long time, it comes from the release of the ciliary muscle. After you get more used to the tearing sensation, the eyes won’t tear up at all. Just the stinging you will feel.

How Are You Rocking?

Rocking is not moving your head side by side, it’s moving the whole body as one. If you are standing you are going to rock from your feet or your waist.

I Don't Have Any Progress?

Even though you feel like you are not making any progress still keep doing the good habits and good visual techniques. You are rewiring your brain to see differently, the more you take these techniques into practice the better results you will get. The more you tell your brain about seeing your peripheral the more your brain eventually gets the process.

How Long Will This Take?

The process requires time, consistency, and patience. You have to have time to do these techniques, you have to be consistent at what you're doing and you need to have patience doing it all. The more time you put into the techniques the faster the results will be.The more consistent you are with the actual habits the faster the results you are going to get. It shouldn't take years to fix your vision. The eye is a muscle and if you learn how to exercise the muscle how long will it take for the muscle to get into shape?

What About Axial Elongation?

Despite Axial Elongation, the ciliary can focus the lens enough to see clearly. for a certain amount of time. Noticing the peripheral vision and using the motion tracking drill allows the ciliary muscle to be fixed, Axial Elongation to be fixed the ciliary muscle to be strengthened all at the same time.
E that muscle.
Where's Your Science?

Science and doctors have been known to say that our vision is some kind of medical condition, or it’s hereditary and can't be fixed. Despite Science, you can fix your vision by doing this one simple thing. If you know how to train or exercise a muscle to get it to work right you can change that muscle. You can figure out how to repeat the process to get clarity with consistency.

Bad Vision Habits That Keeps Your Vision From Improving

Tunnel vision is causing our vision to fail. The more we tunnel vision the more you get stuck in the loop for doing it. The more you can keep your vision open seeing movement around your peripheral field of view the easier it is. 

Bad Habits : 

Reading and not moving your eyes together is sucking you into tunnel visioning. 

Walking without looking at anything in particular. Look at an object as you walk and notice the changes of movement in your peripheral. When you don't use your eyes to fix or focus on a specific point, your eyes get lazy.

Watching TV or reading with your head against a headrest. You want to be able to move your eyes together.

Reading with your eyes down and head up. The muscle gets tense when your head is rested at an angle that can lead to astigmatism or the reshaping of the cornea.

When you are reading make sure you are reading perpendicular to whatever you are reading, and move your eyes and head down to read without putting strain on the extraocular muscle.

Not getting enough daylight: Daylight keeps are eyes charged and refreshed. Daylight helps tremendously. Sunlight is so much better than our eyes them artificial light.

Doubting that you can improve your vision. If you doubt yourself that you can't fix your vision then you're not going to fix your vision. You have to mentally tell yourself that theirs nothing wrong with my eyes all you need to know is how to use them. Get yourself in that mindset that you are going to fix your vision. The more you can tell yourself that the easier it is.

Believing others that you can’t fix your vision. Do your research that can help you to improve. Notice movement and your peripheral to improve.

Being impatient about improving your eyes. Vision improvement takes time and patience. Even though the bad days were you can’t seem to focus, have double vision, etc on anything you have to still put the work in. Be in it for the long haul. You have to constantly work on improving your vision, telling yourself that I'm going to get through this. It is up to you to have the mental motivation to improve your vision. If you want to fix your vision, you have to do the work.

I Don't Active Focus But I Do Automatically Focus For Vision Improvement.

Active focus isn't something that you can control, you can't control the focus on your eyes. When you look at something close or far it clears up without control. The focusing in the eyes is also something that is controlled by the brain. when your subconscious becomes aware of your peripheral, your eyes will automatically start focusing on their own.  Some people are aware of the peripheral but don’t notice the movement which causes their vision improvement process to stall. You have to be aware of movement between multiple objects. It’s the shifting space and separation that keeps our clarity muscle simulated so the brain can go to work and focus the lens properly.  The focus is automatic when you notice these key details.

Find Your Own Natural Vision Improvement Truth (and my progress update)!

Don’t take the face value of what anyone has said about vision restoration. Do your research and experimentation. Listen to what your body is telling you. When you listen to your body about what to do to improve then you will get the results you wanted.  The  Bates method pdf and Avtice focus are very much alike in techniques. If you taught yourself how to get the clear flash you can teach yourself to hold it longer. Tunnel vision is the true cause of myopia. When you stop using your entire field of view your central vision fails. The more you become aware of your peripheral vision and turn it into habitat the better your central vision can hold on to clarity. At first start by noticing two objects as you move then over time, you can see more than one object at once. Noticing more than two objects can equal fast correction. It's about noticing movement between objects, learning to relax, relieving tension in the clarity muscle, and using the peripheral vision to improve. If you can teach yourself to do all of these things at the same time the world will come into focus without even trying to make it happen, it just does. Theirs no rush to a 20/20 vision, patience and time are key. Retraining your brain to focus properly will improve your vision. If you truly want to accomplish anything in life you have to work at it.






My Natural Vision Improvement Guides

Keeping your eye muscles engaged by looking at 3d objects in your peripheral keeps your central vision shape most of the time.

My Last Myopia Is Mental Vision Improvement Video

It isn't very hard to get your eyes to the point where they can see clearly. The hardest part is to relax all the time so you can see clearly all the time.



























Myopia Is Mental









